**Introduction**

Lead is a heavy metal present in nature and has been used broadly used throughout human history. Exposure to lead can cause a large variety of detrimental effect on health. Common sources of contamination include occupational intake of lead such as mining, smelting, manufacturing and recycling activities. Ingestion of lead- contaminated dust and drinking water from leaded pipes and food from lead glazed containers also lead to increases level of lead in body.1

Blood lead level is a test that is used to detect the quantity of lead in the blood. In adults, 10μg/dL can be considered as normal level while in children, the amount which is considered normal is 5μg/dL. A blood lead level above these values is considered abnormal.2 Once lead enters the body, it gets transported to various organs like brain, liver, bones and kidney. It gets stored in teeth and bones where it gets collected over time. Smoking has been also associated with high blood lead level as tobacco leaves contain lead-210 due to high- phosphate fertilizers.3 These fertilizers are also used for agricultural purpose through which they contaminate various crops and vegetables.

Countries where lead is still added to petrol and gasoline or used in paint or soldered products, are the one with the highest blood lead levels. America being the developed country has population with elevated Blood lead level in the urban areas, population with lower socioeconomic status and for minorities. The highest amount of blood lead level which is 97.5th percentile of the blood lead level distribution in U.S. remains in the children.4

In United States, the average blood lead level in children aged between 1 and 5 dropped from 15.2 μg/dL in 1976-1980 to 0.83 μg/dL in 2011-2016. According to one study by Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) in 1997, while correlating the prevalence of elevated blood lead level with age, sex, race and insurance type, it was highly associated with black race.5
We will be conducting an analysis to find out the association between our main outcome variable ‘Blood Lead level’ with exposure variable current smoker and potential covariates race, Genders, and socioeconomic status from the data NHANES taken from National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey, part of CDC.
 
*Methods*

The target population wass the residents of the building in lower east side of Manhattan. Recently, 138 Ludlow Street has been found to be exceeding the level of lead dust, 37 times higher than the U.S. Environment Protection Agency’s standard. People who don’t smoke were excluded from the study. Total of 40 people were taken as study size.
The study design was cross-sectional study. Since I was analyzing the correlation between the outcome variable and exposure variables at a single point of time, we will use cross sectional study. The main exposure of interest was smoking. The main confounder was the products used in apartment to control insects and race of each sample.
I then applied Univariate analysis to explore the data set from NHANES and found out the central tendency and range of the values. I then analyzed the set of two variables using Bivariate analysis. This helped us in finding out relationship between the variables ‘blood lead level’ and ‘present smoking status’. Then I ran the stratified analysis to find out any potential confounding factor in our data set following which, I analyzed the data set using multiple linear regression to predict the outcome of a response variable. STATA/ SE 17.0 software was used to conduct the analysis.